--- 
wordpress_id: 127
layout: post
title: "Onto the next day job subversion: K-Logging"
wordpress_slug: oooadh
wordpress_date: "2002-05-10T13:55:40-04:00"
wordpress_url: http://www.decafbad.com/blog/?p=127
---
<p>
Speaking of software I want to get deployed at work (ie. time tracking), another thing I want to take the plunge with is k-logging.  Basically, I want some software to give every person here an internal blog or journal.  Immediately, I want this to capture internal narrative.  A future subversive idea I have for it is to eventually pipe some of these internal entries out to our public company website.  (Yes, I'm reading The Cluetrain Manifesto again.)
</p>
<p>
I've gotten almost everyone here on the wiki bandwagon, and we're using it regularly as a knowledge capture and collaboration tool.  So, they're used to me throwing odd new tech at them.  Unfortunately, the wiki isn't precisely suitable to what I want for the k-logs.  These are my requirements so far:
</p>
<ul>
<li>Must be dead simple to use in all aspects, so that it sits far below the laziness threshold it takes to record an idea or narrative as it occurs.</li>
<li>Rich set of categories and metadata by which an entry can be tagged.  (ie. On what project were you working?  On what project task?  With what products?  How much time did you spend?)</li>
<li>Arbitrary views on weblog entries, querying on category and metadata, maybe even on full-text search.  I want to be able to weave together, on the fly, the narrative of any person, project, product, or any other topic.</li>
</ul>
<p>
I'm looking, hopefully, for something free.  At the moment, I'd have a hard time campaigning for the purchase of a fleet of Radio <a href="http://www.decafbad.com/twiki/bin/view/Main/UserLand">UserLand</a> subscriptions for all of us, unfortunately.  Someday, perhaps.  (I could just imagine the insane possibilities of a Radio on every employee's desktop.)  But, is there anything out there like this now?  It's simple enough that I could probably roll my own in a weekend or less, but it'd be nice to jump on the bandwagon of an established k-log tool.
</p>
<p>
Also really looking at more ways to lower the laziness threshold.  We just converted the entire company over to using Jabber as our official instant messaging platform, so I thought it'd be pretty keen to have the k-log system establish a presence to receive IM'ed journal entries.  Along the lines of the wiki adoption, I'd probably have to get everyone to embed a certain style of keywords or some other convention to get the k-log system to pick up categories.
</p>
<p>
Or, to make it even lazier, could I get the k-log system to automatically discover categories by the mention of keywords?  Hmm, this could be fun.
</p>
<p>
Anyone out there working at a k-logged company?
</p>
<!--more-->
shortname=oooadh
