--- 
wordpress_id: 549
layout: post
title: "dbagg3: Please excuse the mess"
excerpt: Wow.  So it looks like there are some people starting to follow to what I'm doing with dbagg3, and they're showing me how woefully prepared I am for the attention from tinkerers who are actually trying to, you know, run my code.
date: "2004-09-17T09:32:30-04:00"
tags: 
- syndication
- xml
wordpress_slug: dbagg3mess
wordpress_url: http://www.decafbad.com/blog/?p=549
---
Wow.  So it looks like there are some people starting to follow to what I'm doing with `dbagg3`, and they're showing me how woefully prepared I am for the attention from tinkerers who are actually trying to, you know, **run** my code.  Things have been crazy busy for me at work, so I haven't been getting done what I've planned.  But, I do need to pull a few things together and clean a few things up.  I'll soon be answering the smattering of email I've gotten so far, but until then, a few quick thoughts:

* My source control is a bit of a mess at the moment.  Not only have I [switched from CVS to SVN][svnswitch]-- but even if you followed me in that migration, I've not kept committed code in working order.  I already know that this is a horrible habit, but since no one's really been looking, I haven't been called on it until now.  (Heh, heh--d'oh.)  Planning this weekend (but hopefully today) to resolve this, so that moving forward, svn trunk will be (as far as possible) in a working state at any given moment.

* I've hacked one of my dependencies, SQLObject, by applying [a patch][sodistinct] to support SELECT DISTINCT queries.  This has understandably caused problems for some people who have no idea what I did.  This patch has turned out to be essential, though I don't know if/when it will or would be included in a release of SQLObject.  So...  I wonder if I should dump my working copy of SQLObject into source control?  Otherwise, applying the DISTINCT patch to your SQLObject install should work.

* At some point very soon, I want to change the name of this thing to **feedReactor**.  Yes, I know there's already a *feedparser*, and a *feeddemon*, and a *feedburner*, and someone's probably got a *feedkitchensink* in the works, but I like this name and want to run with it.

So, in the meantime while I straighten some things out, please excuse the mess and thanks for bearing with me!

[sodistinct]: http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=9122066
[svnswitch]: http://www.decafbad.com/blog/2004/09/16/moving_time_from_cvs_to_subversion
<!--more-->
shortname=dbagg3mess
